---
title: "EEBAx: History"
layout: post
---

I surprisingly had a few jobs in my career. Beside my own startup, i only worked to Ashrafcom. EEBAx was my first startup that i build with Mohamed Jaafar, https://eebax.com.


I'm going to go back to ~ 2013 and how it all started.

This website was made by Mohamed Jaafar (the one on the left, obviously 😂), in 2015.

In 2014, i had the shortest conversation with Mohamed. I told him i don't think i can fit into Surveying and I want to shift career to software, in a professional way. So in order to do that, we had to build a portfolio, and in order to do that we have to have a domain name (duh!) so we can enlist our projects and show what we are capable off. So, at the end of 2014 school year, we decided to collect some money to make our company. 
My father secured me my first job at his company, he had me cut my hair as a precondition to get the job! I was Soo into getting the money that I sacrificed my hair. The job was quite simple, I just had to install windows on variety of company devices and install office products too. It didn't take much and by afternoon I finished the job. There was the boss pc and i just couldn't install windows in it, so I told them I'm gonna install linux here. They asked me if it runs word AND had Arabic keyboard. I made sure both were there. Now that I remembered it, they had really beautiful IT employee! She's so beautiful I actually couldn't focus on work, I asked her about her work and she said she's a designer and she did various designs and stuff for the company, the weirdest thing is that she asked me whether I have Photoshop and actually told me she didn't have any and asked for courses about it. You'd be wondering how a designer don't have photoshop but she's an exception 😂😂

So they gave me like 900 or something, now I think it's very small, but back then I felt there is no money beyond it. So I gave my mum and dad couple of hundreds and I saved 400 to myself. I bought a headphone from Amjad Store and we had Fatta at Judy 😂. The Fatta sucked big time, but my excitment with the new headphone helped me to cope with it.

So we used the headphone to record our course Learning Matlab From Scratch. The course quicky gained good traction and in no time, we had 5000 subscribers! That was waaay too much!
Jaafar on the other hand applied for a freelancing job at UpWork. He landed a 270$ job through a logo! It was Soo so great. We bought eebax.com, and paid for a few internet expenses too! 

One thing I just remembered is the name Eebax. So, Mohamed told me to think about a name, and honestly I thought the name he would come up with would be better than mine, I was thinking about XEng but I never told him about it. So, a few days later he asked me again and I told him I still didn't have any. So um while we're heading back to the dorm, I asked him about his exs name. He told me her name was Eeba (she's Pakistani). So I told him we should name it Eeba. He said his family / friends would notice, so we added the suffix X as a salt to make it not that clear:joy:. He was not really convinced about the idea, but he went onboard about it soob
Oh god! This is too much! I never thought I'd write that much
