---
title: new year
layout: post
---

Something I didn't share this year yet but I was wondering what did I learn this year. What was the summation of it. Yeah the war inevitably had inflicted serious weight over other things. Surviving that on its own is rather a huge win.

But what I came to realize is that I learned to be much better aware at the things I have had the pleasure to have. That I started to actually appreciate things and to not take things for granted. The smallest gesture of kindness, the smallest favor -- those very small things which would have gone unnoticed by me, I became more aware about them.

I have became much better at feeling and emphasizing with other people. To be more connected and to feel other people. That was a huge progress but there is more to it inshallah.

But this year I felt The Love. And that was truly the essence for this whole year. I have always been loved by family and friends and I will forever be in debt to them for that. But I was too insecure, too crippled with my own anxiety and self doubts to recognize that. I forever have had the feeling that no one loves me but hey people would be okay with me as I am okay to them. You know, for me, life as a whole was a giant trial and error arena: I didn't come- much like many other people- with some basic common sense: i have had to learn things on my own and on the learning side, sometimes you have to unlearn certain bits too.

This year I felt The Love, I recognized it too.

So thank you, Ahmed. Thanks a lot
